Adding error explanations for resolution errors (#4021)
dafny-lang/dafny: docs/HowToFAQ/Errors-Resolver3.md

<!-- %no-check TODO - fix - incorrect error message for this example -->
```dafny
module M {
  twostate function f(): int
}
const c := M.f()
```

A `twostate` function is a function of two different heaps.
Accordingly it can be used only in situations in which there are two states
in play (that is, a _two-state_ context).  One example is in a postcondition
(_ensures_ clause) where the two states are the states at the beginning and end 
of the method execution. Another two-state context is the body of a method, 
where the states are the pre-state of the method and the current state at the
location of the call. However, contexts outside of a method, such as initializations 
of const declarations, are not two-state contexts.

## **Error: a field must be selected via an object, not just a class name**

<!-- TODO -->

## **Error: member _name_ in type _type_ does not refer to a field or a function**

<!-- TODO - not sure this is reachable -->

## **Error: array selection requires an array_n_ (got _type_)**

<!-- TODO - fix - different error message for this example -->

```dafny
const a: int
const x: ORDINAL
method m() 
{  

> var c := a[0,0];

Reviewer: Indentation would make this slightly nicer.

Author: Indented

const x := !1
```

The logical negation operator (`!`) applies to `bool` and bitvector values, but not to, for example,
`int` values without an explicit conversion. In particular there is no conversion between 0 and false
or 1 and true.

## **Error: size operator expects a collection argument (instead got _type_)**

```dafny
method m(x: array<int>) {
  var y: int := |x|;
}
```

The |...| operator is the _size_ operator and returns the integer that is the size of its argument.
Only finite collections (of type `seq`, `set`, `multiset`, `map`) may be the argument of the
size operator -- not arrays, `iset`, or `imap`.

## **Error: a _what_ definition is not allowed to depend on the set of allocated references**

<!-- TODO -->

## **Error: type conversion to an int-based type is allowed only from numeric and bitvector types, char, and ORDINAL (got _type_)**

```dafny
const x: int := true as int
```

Not all pairs of types have implicit or even explicit conversions. But there are conversions
to int types from numeric types, including the ORDINAL type; for any source type, the value of 
the numeric expression must be in the range for the int type (if it is a subset type or a newtype).

> Even `char` values have an integer representation (and thus a represetnation as a `real`) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even `char` values have an integer representation (and thus a representation as an `int`) 
```

corresponding to their unicode value.

## **Error: type conversion to a real-based type is allowed only from numeric and bitvector types, char, and ORDINAL (got _type_)**

```dafny
const x: real := true as real
```

Not all pairs of types have implicit or even explicit conversions. But there are conversions
to real types from numeric types, including the ORDINAL type; for any source type, the value of 

> the numeric expression must be in the range for the int type (if it is a subset type or a newtype).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the numeric expression must be in the range for the real type (if it is a subset type or a newtype).
```

Author: Fixed up the text for int and real

> Even `char` values have an integer representation corresponding to their unicode value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even `char` values have a real representation corresponding to their unicode value.
```

## **Error: type conversion to a bitvector-based type is allowed only from numeric and bitvector types, char, and ORDINAL (got _type_)**

```dafny
const x: bv1 := true as bv1
```

Not all pairs of types have implicit or even explicit conversions. But there are explicit conversions
to bitvector types from numeric types, including the ORDINAL type; for any source type, the value of 
the numeric expression must be in the range for the bitvector type. Even `char` values have an

> integer representation corresponding to their unicode value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
bitvector representation corresponding to their unicode value.
```
With "a" instead of "an" on the previous line.

Author: Fixed

## **Error: type conversion to a char type is allowed only from numeric and bitvector types, char, and ORDINAL (got _type_)**

```dafny
const x: char := true as char
```

Not all pairs of types have implicit or even explicit conversions. But there are explicit conversions
to the char type from numeric types, including the ORDINAL type; for any source type, the value of 
the numeric expression must be in the range for the char type. The numeric values for a given
`char` is its numeric unicode representation, which (for `--unicode-char=true`) is the range 

> 0 to 0x10FFFF, inclusive.

Reviewer: There's a gap in the middle, to Z3's great sadness.

derived from that trait, or whether a `int` value is actually a value of some int-based subtype.
However, the `is` operator is not allowed to be used in cases where the type of the expression on the left
means that the expression could never be a value of the type on the right. For example a
class value could never be converted to a datatype value, so an `is` between a reference expression and
a datatype type is not allowed.

## **Error: first argument to _op_ must be of type bool (instead got _type_)**

```dafny
const b := true
const i := 4
const c := i || b
```

The logical operators `||`, `&&`, `==>`, `<==`, `<==>` take only `bool` arguments.
Dafny does not have any implicit conversion to or from `bool` values.

## **Error: second argument to _op_ must be of type bool (instead got _type_)**

```dafny
const b := true
const i := 4
const c := b ==> i
```

The logical operators `||`, `&&`, `==>`, `<==`, `<==>` take only `bool` arguments.
Dafny does not have any implicit conversion to or from `bool` values.

## **Error: range of quantified variable must be of type bool (instead got _type_)**

<!-- %no-check TODO - fix - different error message for this example -->
```dafny

> const c := forall i: int | true && (i==0) :: true

Reviewer: In this example, the range _does_ have a `bool` type.

```dafny
const x: ORDINAL
const y: int
const z := y < x 
```

For binary operators, the two operands must be able to be implicitly converted to the same supertype.
For example, two different int-based subtypes would be converted to int, or two values of different
classes that extend the same trait could be converted to values of that trait.
Where Dafny cannot determine such a common supertype, the comparison is illegal and this error message results.

<!--two instances, for < <= and for > >= -->

## **Error: arguments to _op_ must be of a numeric type, bitvector type, ORDINAL, char, a sequence type, or a set-like type (instead got _type_ and _type_)**

```dafny
const x: map<int,int>
const z := x < x 
```

The `<`, `<=`, `>=`, and `>` operators are used for traditional numeric comparison, 
comparison of prefixes in sequences (just `<`),
and subset relations among sets.
But they are not used for comparing maps or reference values.

<!--two instances, for < <= and for > >= -->

## **Error: type of _op_ must be a bitvector type (instead got _type_)**

```dafny
const z :=  0 << 1
```

The `<<` and `>>` operators are left- and right-shift operations. 

> They shift a bit-vector value by a given integer number of bits.

Reviewer: The number of bits can also have bit-vector type, as you mention below.

Author: I hope the distinction between an integer value and an int type and an int-base type are clear (and consistently used)

The left-hand operand must be a value of a bit-vector type.
Even int literals are not implicitly converted to bitvectors 

> (because Dafny wuld not know which bit-vector type to use).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(because Dafny would not know which bit-vector type to use).
```
